Hear you this, house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah; who swear by the name of Yahweh, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness 48:2 (for they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves on the God of Israel; Yahweh of Armies is his name): 48:3 I have declared the former things from of old; yes, they went forth out of my mouth, and I shown them: suddenly I did them, and they happened. 48:4 Because I knew that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew, and your brow brass; 48:5 therefore I have declared it to you from of old; before it came to pass I shown it you; lest you should say, My idol has done them, and my engraved image, and my molten image, has commanded them. 48:6 You have heard it; see all this; and you, will you not declare it? I have shown you new things from this time, even hidden things, which you have not known. 48:7 They are created now, and not from of old; and before this day you didn't hear them; lest you should say, Behold, I knew them. 48:8 Yes, you didn't hear; yes, you didn't know; yes, from of old your ear was not opened: for I knew that you did deal very treacherously, and was called a transgressor from the womb. 48:9 For my name's sake will I defer my anger, and for my praise will I refrain for you, that I not cut you off. 48:10 Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have chosen you in the furnace of affliction. 48:11 For my own sake, for my own sake, will I do it; for how should [my name] be profaned? and my glory I will not give to another. 48:12 Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel my called: I am he; I am the first, I also am the last. 48:13 Yes, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has spread out the heavens: when I call to them, they stand up together. 48:14 Assemble yourselves, all you, and hear; who among them has declared these things? He whom Yahweh loves shall perform his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm [shall be on] the Chaldeans. 48:15 I, even I, have spoken; yes, I have called him; I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous. 48:16 Come you near to me, hear you this; from the beginning I have not spoken in secret; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the Lord Yahweh has sent me, and his Spirit. 48:17 Thus says Yahweh, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am Yahweh your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you by the way that you should go. 48:18 Oh that you had listened to my commandments! then had your peace been as a river, and your righteousness as the waves of the sea: 48:19 your seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of your body like the grains of it: his name would not be cut off nor destroyed from before me. 48:20 Go you forth from Babylon, flee you from the Chaldeans; with a voice of singing declare you, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth: say you, Yahweh has redeemed his servant Jacob. 48:21 They didn't thirst when he led them through the deserts; he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he split the rock also, and the waters gushed out. 48:22 There is no peace, says Yahweh, to the wicked.