Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 28:2 Command the children of Israel, and tell them, My offering, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor to me, shall you observe to offer to me in their due season. 28:3 You shall tell them, This is the offering made by fire which you shall offer to Yahweh: male lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt offering. 28:4 The one lamb shall you offer in the morning, and the other lamb shall you offer at even; 28:5 and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil. 28:6 It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in Mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Yahweh. 28:7 The drink offering of it shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shall you pour out a drink offering of strong drink to Yahweh. 28:8 The other lamb shall you offer at even: as the meal offering of the morning, and as the drink offering of it, you shall offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Yahweh. 28:9 On the Sabbath day two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, and the drink offering of it: 28:10 this is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it. 28:11 In the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish; 28:12 and three tenth parts [of an ephah] of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram; 28:13 and a tenth part of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering to every lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Yahweh. 28:14 Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year. 28:15 One male goat for a sin offering to Yahweh; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it. 28:16 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Yahweh's Passover. 28:17 On the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. 28:18 In the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work; 28:19 but you shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt offering to Yahweh: two young bulls, and one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to you without blemish; 28:20 and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil: three tenth parts shall you offer for a bull, and two tenth parts for the ram; 28:21 a tenth part shall you offer for every lamb of the seven lambs; 28:22 and one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you. 28:23 You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering. 28:24 After this manner you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Yahweh: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink offering of it. 28:25 On the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work. 28:26 Also in the day of the first fruits, when you offer a new meal offering to Yahweh in your [feast of] weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work; 28:27 but you shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor to Yahweh: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old; 28:28 and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenth parts for each bull, two tenth parts for the one ram, 28:29 a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs; 28:30 one male goat, to make atonement for you. 28:31 Besides the continual burnt offering, and the meal offering of it, you shall offer them (they shall be to you without blemish), and their drink offerings.