The people were as murmurers, [speaking] evil in the ears of Yahweh: and when Yahweh heard it, his anger was kindled; and the fire of Yahweh burnt among them, and devoured in the uttermost part of the camp. 11:2 The people cried to Moses; and Moses prayed to Yahweh, and the fire abated. 11:3 The name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of Yahweh burnt among them. 11:4 The mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat? 11:5 We remember the fish, which we ate in Egypt for nothing; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic: 11:6 but now our soul is dried away; there is nothing at all save this manna to look on. 11:7 The manna was like coriander seed, and the appearance of it as the appearance of bdellium. 11:8 The people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil. 11:9 When the dew fell on the camp in the night, the manna fell on it. 11:10 Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent: and the anger of Yahweh was kindled greatly; and Moses was displeased. 11:11 Moses said to Yahweh, Why have you dealt ill with your servant? and why haven't I found favor in your sight, that you lay the burden of all this people on me? 11:12 Have I conceived all this people? Have I brought them forth, that you should tell me, Carry them in your bosom, as a nurse carries a nursing infant, to the land which you swore to their fathers? 11:13 Where should I get meat to give to all this people? for they weep to me, saying, Give us meat, that we may eat. 11:14 I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me. 11:15 If you deal thus with me, please kill me out of hand, if I have found favor in your sight; and let me not see my wretchedness. 11:16 Yahweh said to Moses, Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them to the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with you. 11:17 I will come down and talk with you there: and I will take of the Spirit which is on you, and will put it on them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with you, that you not bear it yourself alone. 11:18 Say you to the people, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, and you shall eat flesh; for you have wept in the ears of Yahweh, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Egypt: therefore Yahweh will give you flesh, and you shall eat. 11:19 You shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days, 11:20 but a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome to you; because that you have rejected Yahweh who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt? 11:21 Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and you have said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month. 11:22 Shall flocks and herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them? 11:23 Yahweh said to Moses, Has Yahweh's hand grown short? now shall you see whether my word shall happen to you or not. 11:24 Moses went out, and told the people the words of Yahweh: and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the Tent. 11:25 Yahweh came down in the cloud, and spoke to him, and took of the Spirit that was on him, and put it on the seventy elders: and it happened that when the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied, but they did so no more. 11:26 But there remained two men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the Spirit rested on them; and they were of those who were written, but had not gone out to the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp. 11:27 There ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp. 11:28 Joshua the son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, answered, My lord Moses, forbid them. 11:29 Moses said to him, Are you jealous for my sake? I wish that all Yahweh's people were prophets, that Yahweh would put his Spirit on them! 11:30 Moses got him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel. 11:31 There went forth a wind from Yahweh, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day's journey on this side, and a day's journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about two cubits above the surface of the earth. 11:32 The people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails: he who gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp. 11:33 While the flesh was yet between their teeth, before it was chewed, the anger of Yahweh was kindled against the people, and Yahweh struck the people with a very great plague. 11:34 The name of that place was called Kibrothhattaavah, because there they buried the people who lusted. 11:35 From Kibrothhattaavah the people traveled to Hazeroth; and they abode at Hazeroth.