<<For the Chief Musician. Set to "The Death of the Son." A Psalm by David.>> I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart. I will tell of all your marvelous works. 9:2 I will be glad and rejoice in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. 9:3 When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish in your presence. 9:4 For you have maintained my just cause. You sit on the throne judging righteously. 9:5 You have rebuked the nations. You have destroyed the wicked. You have blotted out their name forever and ever. 9:6 The enemy is overtaken by endless ruin. The very memory of the cities which you have overthrown has perished. 9:7 But Yahweh reigns forever. He has prepared his throne for judgment. 9:8 He will judge the world in righteousness. He will administer judgment to the peoples in uprightness. 9:9 Yahweh will also be a high tower for the oppressed; a high tower in times of trouble. 9:10 Those who know your name will put their trust in you, for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you. 9:11 Sing praises to Yahweh, who dwells in Zion, and declare among the people what he has done. 9:12 For he who avenges blood remembers them. He doesn't forget the cry of the afflicted. 9:13 Have mercy on me, Yahweh. See my affliction by those who hate me, and lift me up from the gates of death; 9:14 that I may show forth all your praise. In the gates of the daughter of Zion, I will rejoice in your salvation. 9:15 The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made. In the net which they hid, their own foot is taken. 9:16 Yahweh has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The wicked is snared by the work of his own hands. Meditation. Selah. 9:17 The wicked shall be turned back to Sheol, even all the nations that forget God. 9:18 For the needy shall not always be forgotten, nor the hope of the poor perish forever. 9:19 Arise, Yahweh! Don't let man prevail. Let the nations be judged in your sight. 9:20 Put them in fear, Yahweh. Let the nations know that they are only men. Selah.