Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 24:2 "Command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually. 24:3 Outside of the veil of the Testimony, in the Tent of Meeting, shall Aaron keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh continually: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations. 24:4 He shall keep in order the lamps on the pure gold lampstand before Yahweh continually. 24:5 "You shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it: two tenth parts of an ephah shall be in one cake. 24:6 You shall set them in two rows, six on a row, on the pure gold table before Yahweh. 24:7 You shall put pure frankincense on each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire to Yahweh. 24:8 Every Sabbath day he shall set it in order before Yahweh continually. It is on the behalf of the children of Israel an everlasting covenant. 24:9 It shall be for Aaron and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy to him of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire by a perpetual statute." 24:10 The son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp. 24:11 The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him to Moses. His mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. 24:12 They put him in custody, until the will of Yahweh should be declared to them. 24:13 Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 24:14 "Bring out of the camp him who cursed; and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him. 24:15 You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin. 24:16 He who blasphemes the name of Yahweh, he shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him: the foreigner as well as the native-born, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death. 24:17 "'He who strikes any man mortally shall surely be put to death. 24:18 He who strikes an animal mortally shall make it good, life for life. 24:19 If anyone injures his neighbor; as he has done, so shall it be done to him: 24:20 fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has injured someone, so shall it be done to him. 24:21 He who kills an animal shall make it good; and he who kills a man shall be put to death. 24:22 You shall have one kind of law, for the foreigner as well as the native-born: for I am Yahweh your God.'" 24:23 Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they brought forth him who had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. The children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses.