Doesn't wisdom cry out? Doesn't understanding raise her voice? 8:2 On the top of high places by the way, where the paths meet, she stands. 8:3 Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, at the entry doors, she cries aloud: 8:4 "To you men, I call! I send my voice to the sons of mankind. 8:5 You simple, understand prudence. You fools, be of an understanding heart. 8:6 Hear, for I will speak excellent things. The opening of my lips is for right things. 8:7 For my mouth speaks truth. Wickedness is an abomination to my lips. 8:8 All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing crooked or perverse in them. 8:9 They are all plain to him who understands, right to those who find knowledge. 8:10 Receive my instruction rather than silver; knowledge rather than choice gold. 8:11 For wisdom is better than rubies. All the things that may be desired can't be compared to it. 8:12 "I, wisdom, have made prudence my dwelling. Find out knowledge and discretion. 8:13 The fear of Yahweh is to hate evil. I hate pride, arrogance, the evil way, and the perverse mouth. 8:14 Counsel and sound knowledge are mine. I have understanding and power. 8:15 By me kings reign, and princes decree justice. 8:16 By me princes rule; nobles, and all the righteous rulers of the earth. 8:17 I love those who love me. Those who seek me diligently will find me. 8:18 With me are riches, honor, enduring wealth, and prosperity. 8:19 My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold; my yield than choice silver. 8:20 I walk in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of justice; 8:21 That I may give wealth to those who love me. I fill their treasuries. 8:22 "Yahweh possessed me in the beginning of his work, before his deeds of old. 8:23 I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, before the earth existed. 8:24 When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water. 8:25 Before the mountains were settled in place, before the hills, I was brought forth; 8:26 while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the beginning of the dust of the world. 8:27 When he established the heavens, I was there; when he set a circle on the surface of the deep, 8:28 when he established the clouds above, when the springs of the deep became strong, 8:29 when he gave to the sea its boundary, that the waters should not violate his commandment, when he marked out the foundations of the earth; 8:30 then I was the craftsman by his side. I was a delight day by day, always rejoicing before him, 8:31 Rejoicing in his whole world. My delight was with the sons of men. 8:32 "Now therefore, my sons, listen to me, for blessed are those who keep my ways. 8:33 Hear instruction, and be wise. Don't refuse it. 8:34 Blessed is the man who hears me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at my door posts. 8:35 For whoever finds me, finds life, and will obtain favor from Yahweh. 8:36 But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul. All those who hate me love death."