My son, don't forget my teaching; but let your heart keep my commandments: 3:2 for length of days, and years of life, and peace, will they add to you. 3:3 Don't let kindness and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. 3:4 So you will find favor, and good understanding in the sight of God and man. 3:5 Trust in Yahweh with all your heart, and don't lean on your own understanding. 3:6 In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. 3:7 Don't be wise in your own eyes. Fear Yahweh, and depart from evil. 3:8 It will be health to your body, and nourishment to your bones. 3:9 Honor Yahweh with your substance, with the first fruits of all your increase: 3:10 so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. 3:11 My son, don't despise Yahweh's discipline, neither be weary of his reproof: 3:12 for whom Yahweh loves, he reproves; even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights. 3:13 Happy is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gets understanding. 3:14 For her good profit is better than getting silver, and her return is better than fine gold. 3:15 She is more precious than rubies. None of the things you can desire are to be compared to her. 3:16 Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor. 3:17 Her ways are ways of pleasantness. All her paths are peace. 3:18 She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. Happy is everyone who retains her. 3:19 By wisdom Yahweh founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. 3:20 By his knowledge, the depths were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew. 3:21 My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion: 3:22 so they will be life to your soul, and grace for your neck. 3:23 Then you shall walk in your way securely. Your foot won't stumble. 3:24 When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet. 3:25 Don't be afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes: 3:26 for Yahweh will be your confidence, and will keep your foot from being taken. 3:27 Don't withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do it. 3:28 Don't say to your neighbor, "Go, and come again; tomorrow I will give it to you," when you have it by you. 3:29 Don't devise evil against your neighbor, seeing he dwells securely by you. 3:30 Don't strive with a man without cause, if he has done you no harm. 3:31 Don't envy the man of violence. Choose none of his ways. 3:32 For the perverse is an abomination to Yahweh, but his friendship is with the upright. 3:33 Yahweh's curse is in the house of the wicked, but he blesses the habitation of the righteous. 3:34 Surely he mocks the mockers, but he gives grace to the humble. 3:35 The wise will inherit glory, but shame will be the promotion of fools.