Listen, sons, to a father's instruction. Pay attention and know understanding; 4:2 for I give you sound learning. Don't forsake my law. 4:3 For I was a son to my father, tender and an only child in the sight of my mother. 4:4 He taught me, and said to me: "Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commandments, and live. 4:5 Get wisdom. Get understanding. Don't forget, neither swerve from the words of my mouth. 4:6 Don't forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. 4:7 Wisdom is supreme. Get wisdom. Yes, though it costs all your possessions, get understanding. 4:8 Esteem her, and she will exalt you. She will bring you to honor, when you embrace her. 4:9 She will give to your head a garland of grace. She will deliver a crown of splendor to you." 4:10 Listen, my son, and receive my sayings. The years of your life will be many. 4:11 I have taught you in the way of wisdom. I have led you in straight paths. 4:12 When you go, your steps will not be hampered. When you run, you will not stumble. 4:13 Take firm hold of instruction. Don't let her go. Keep her, for she is your life. 4:14 Don't enter into the path of the wicked. Don't walk in the way of evil men. 4:15 Avoid it, and don't pass by it. Turn from it, and pass on. 4:16 For they don't sleep, unless they do evil. Their sleep is taken away, unless they make someone fall. 4:17 For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence. 4:18 But the path of the righteous is like the dawning light, that shines more and more until the perfect day. 4:19 The way of the wicked is like darkness. They don't know what they stumble over. 4:20 My son, attend to my words. Turn your ear to my sayings. 4:21 Let them not depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart. 4:22 For they are life to those who find them, and health to their whole body. 4:23 Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it is the wellspring of life. 4:24 Put away from yourself a perverse mouth. Put corrupt lips far from you. 4:25 Let your eyes look straight ahead. Fix your gaze directly before you. 4:26 Make the path of your feet level. Let all of your ways be established. 4:27 Don't turn to the right hand nor to the left. Remove your foot from evil.