Putting away therefore all wickedness, all deceit, hypocrisies, envies, and all evil speaking, 2:2 as newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the Word, that you may grow thereby, 2:3 if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious: 2:4 coming to him, a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God, precious. 2:5 You also, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. 2:6 Because it is contained in Scripture, "Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, chosen, and precious: He who believes in him will not be disappointed." 2:7 For you who believe therefore is the honor, but for those who are disobedient, "The stone which the builders rejected, has become the chief cornerstone," 2:8 and, "a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense." For they stumble at the word, being disobedient, to which also they were appointed. 2:9 But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, that you may proclaim the excellence of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light: 2:10 who in time past were no people, but now are God's people, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. 2:11 Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; 2:12 having good behavior among the nations, so in that of which they speak against you as evil-doers, they may by your good works, which they see, glorify God in the day of visitation. 2:13 Therefore subject yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether to the king, as supreme; 2:14 or to governors, as sent by him for vengeance on evil-doers and for praise to those who do well. 2:15 For this is the will of God, that by well-doing you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men: 2:16 as free, and not using your freedom for a cloak of wickedness, but as bondservants of God. 2:17 Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king. 2:18 Servants, be in subjection to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the wicked. 2:19 For it is commendable if someone endures pain, suffering unjustly, because of conscience toward God. 2:20 For what glory is it if, when you sin, you patiently endure beating? But if, when you do well, you patiently endure suffering, this is commendable with God. 2:21 For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving you an example, that you should follow his steps, 2:22 who did not sin, "neither was deceit found in his mouth." 2:23 Who, when he was cursed, didn't curse back. When he suffered, didn't threaten, but committed himself to him who judges righteously; 2:24 who his own self bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness; by whose stripes you were healed. 2:25 For you were going astray like sheep; but now have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.