You also, son of man, take a tile, and lay it before you, and portray on it a city, even Jerusalem: 4:2 and lay siege against it, and build forts against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it round about. 4:3 Take for yourself an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between you and the city: and set your face toward it, and it shall be besieged, and you shall lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel. 4:4 Moreover lie you on your left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel on it; [according to] the number of the days that you shall lie on it, you shall bear their iniquity. 4:5 For I have appointed the years of their iniquity to be to you a number of days, even three hundred ninety days: so shall you bear the iniquity of the house of Israel. 4:6 Again, when you have accomplished these, you shall lie on your right side, and shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah: forty days, each day for a year, have I appointed it to you. 4:7 You shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm uncovered; and you shall prophesy against it. 4:8 Behold, I lay bands on you, and you shall not turn you from one side to the other, until you have accomplished the days of your siege. 4:9 Take for yourself also wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and make you bread of it; [according to] the number of the days that you shall lie on your side, even three hundred ninety days, shall you eat of it. 4:10 Your food which you shall eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shall you eat it. 4:11 You shall drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time shall you drink. 4:12 You shall eat it as barley cakes, and you shall bake it in their sight with dung that comes out of man. 4:13 Yahweh said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations where I will drive them. 4:14 Then said I, Ah Lord Yahweh! behold, my soul has not been polluted; for from my youth up even until now have I not eaten of that which dies of itself, or is torn of animals; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth. 4:15 Then he said to me, Behold, I have given you cow's dung for man's dung, and you shall prepare your bread thereon. 4:16 Moreover he said to me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with fearfulness; and they shall drink water by measure, and in dismay: 4:17 that they may want bread and water, and be dismayed one with another, and pine away in their iniquity.