1:1 Paul, an apostle (not from men, neither through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead), 1:2 and all the brothers who are with me, to the assemblies of Galatia: 1:3 Grace to you and peace from God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, 1:4 who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father-- 1:5 to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. 1:6 I marvel that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different "good news"; 1:7 and there isn't another "good news." Only there are some who trouble you, and want to pervert the Good News of Christ. 1:8 But even though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you any "good news" other than that which we preached to you, let him be cursed. 1:9 As we have said before, so I now say again: if any man preaches to you any "good news" other than that which you received, let him be cursed. 1:10 For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? For if I were still pleasing men, I wouldn't be a servant of Christ. 1:11 But I make known to you, brothers, concerning the Good News which was preached by me, that it is not according to man. 1:12 For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came to me through revelation of Jesus Christ. 1:13 For you have heard of my way of living in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the assembly of God, and ravaged it. 1:14 I advanced in the Jews' religion beyond many of my own age among my countrymen, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers. 1:15 But when it was the good pleasure of God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me through his grace, 1:16 to reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I didn't immediately confer with flesh and blood, 1:17 nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia. Then I returned to Damascus. 1:18 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Peter, and stayed with him fifteen days. 1:19 But of the other apostles I saw no one, except James, the Lord's brother. 1:20 Now about the things which I write to you, behold, before God, I'm not lying. 1:21 Then I came to the regions of Syria and Cilicia. 1:22 I was still unknown by face to the assemblies of Judea which were in Christ, 1:23 but they only heard: "He who once persecuted us now preaches the faith that he once tried to destroy." 1:24 And they glorified God in me.