Therefore you are without excuse, O man, whoever you are who judge. For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things. 2:2 We know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things. 2:3 Do you think this, O man who judges those who practice such things, and do the same, that you will escape the judgment of God? 2:4 Or do you despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and patience, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance? 2:5 But according to your hardness and unrepentant heart you are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath, revelation, and of the righteous judgment of God; 2:6 who "will pay back to everyone according to their works:" 2:7 to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and incorruptibility, eternal life; 2:8 but to those who are self-seeking, and don't obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, will be wrath and indignation, 2:9 oppression and anguish, on every soul of man who works evil, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. 2:10 But glory, honor, and peace go to every man who works good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. 2:11 For there is no partiality with God. 2:12 For as many as have sinned without law will also perish without the law. As many as have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. 2:13 For it isn't the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law will be justified 2:14 (for when Gentiles who don't have the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are a law to themselves, 2:15 in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience testifying with them, and their thoughts among themselves accusing or else excusing them) 2:16 in the day when God will judge the secrets of men, according to my Good News, by Jesus Christ. 2:17 Indeed you bear the name of a Jew, and rest on the law, and glory in God, 2:18 and know his will, and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law, 2:19 and are confident that you yourself are a guide of the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, 2:20 a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of babies, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth. 2:21 You therefore who teach another, don't you teach yourself? You who preach that a man shouldn't steal, do you steal? 2:22 You who say a man shouldn't commit adultery. Do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? 2:23 You who glory in the law, through your disobedience of the law do you dishonor God? 2:24 For "the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you," just as it is written. 2:25 For circumcision indeed profits, if you are a doer of the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. 2:26 If therefore the uncircumcised keep the ordinances of the law, won't his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision? 2:27 Won't the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfills the law, judge you, who with the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law? 2:28 For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh; 2:29 but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God.