After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed the day of his birth. 3:2 Job answered: 3:3 "Let the day perish in which I was born, the night which said, 'There is a boy conceived.' 3:4 Let that day be darkness. Don't let God from above seek for it, neither let the light shine on it. 3:5 Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it for their own. Let a cloud dwell on it. Let all that makes black the day terrify it. 3:6 As for that night, let thick darkness seize on it. Let it not rejoice among the days of the year. Let it not come into the number of the months. 3:7 Behold, let that night be barren. Let no joyful voice come therein. 3:8 Let them curse it who curse the day, who are ready to rouse up leviathan. 3:9 Let the stars of the twilight of it be dark. Let it look for light, but have none, neither let it see the eyelids of the morning, 3:10 because it didn't shut up the doors of my mother's womb, nor did it hide trouble from my eyes. 3:11 "Why didn't I die from the womb? Why didn't I give up the spirit when my mother bore me? 3:12 Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breast, that I should suck? 3:13 For now should I have lain down and been quiet. I should have slept, then I would have been at rest, 3:14 with kings and counselors of the earth, who built up waste places for themselves; 3:15 or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver: 3:16 or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been, as infants who never saw light. 3:17 There the wicked cease from troubling. There the weary are at rest. 3:18 There the prisoners are at ease together. They don't hear the voice of the taskmaster. 3:19 The small and the great are there. The servant is free from his master. 3:20 "Why is light given to him who is in misery, life to the bitter in soul, 3:21 Who long for death, but it doesn't come; and dig for it more than for hidden treasures, 3:22 who rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave? 3:23 Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, whom God has hedged in? 3:24 For my sighing comes before I eat. My groanings are poured out like water. 3:25 For the thing which I fear comes on me, That which I am afraid of comes to me. 3:26 I am not at ease, neither am I quiet, neither have I rest; but trouble comes."