Then Job answered, 6:2 "Oh that my anguish were weighed, and all my calamity laid in the balances! 6:3 For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas, therefore have my words been rash. 6:4 For the arrows of the Almighty are within me. My spirit drinks up their poison. The terrors of God set themselves in array against me. 6:5 Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass? Or does the ox low over his fodder? 6:6 Can that which has no flavor be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg? 6:7 My soul refuses to touch them. They are as loathsome food to me. 6:8 "Oh that I might have my request, that God would grant the thing that I long for, 6:9 even that it would please God to crush me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off! 6:10 Be it still my consolation, yes, let me exult in pain that doesn't spare, that I have not denied the words of the Holy One. 6:11 What is my strength, that I should wait? What is my end, that I should be patient? 6:12 Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh of brass? 6:13 Isn't it that I have no help in me, That wisdom is driven quite from me? 6:14 "To him who is ready to faint, kindness should be shown from his friend; even to him who forsakes the fear of the Almighty. 6:15 My brothers have dealt deceitfully as a brook, as the channel of brooks that pass away; 6:16 Which are black by reason of the ice, in which the snow hides itself. 6:17 In the dry season, they vanish. When it is hot, they are consumed out of their place. 6:18 The caravans that travel beside them turn aside. They go up into the waste, and perish. 6:19 The caravans of Tema looked. The companies of Sheba waited for them. 6:20 They were distressed because they were confident. They came there, and were confounded. 6:21 For now you are nothing. You see a terror, and are afraid. 6:22 Did I say, 'Give to me?' or, 'Offer a present for me from your substance?' 6:23 or, 'Deliver me from the adversary's hand?' or, 'Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors?' 6:24 "Teach me, and I will hold my peace. Cause me to understand wherein I have erred. 6:25 How forcible are words of uprightness! But your reproof, what does it reprove? 6:26 Do you intend to reprove words, seeing that the speeches of one who is desperate are as wind? 6:27 Yes, you would even cast lots for the fatherless, and make merchandise of your friend. 6:28 Now therefore be pleased to look at me, for surely I shall not lie to your face. 6:29 Please return. Let there be no injustice. Yes, return again. My cause is righteous. 6:30 Is there injustice on my tongue? Can't my taste discern mischievous things?