"Call now; is there any who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn? 5:2 For resentment kills the foolish man, and jealousy kills the simple. 5:3 I have seen the foolish taking root, but suddenly I cursed his habitation. 5:4 His children are far from safety. They are crushed in the gate. Neither is there any to deliver them, 5:5 whose harvest the hungry eats up, and take it even out of the thorns. The snare gapes for their substance. 5:6 For affliction doesn't come forth from the dust, neither does trouble spring out of the ground; 5:7 but man is born to trouble, as the sparks fly upward. 5:8 "But as for me, I would seek God. I would commit my cause to God, 5:9 who does great things that can't be fathomed, marvelous things without number; 5:10 who gives rain on the earth, and sends waters on the fields; 5:11 so that he sets up on high those who are low, those who mourn are exalted to safety. 5:12 He frustrates the devices of the crafty, So that their hands can't perform their enterprise. 5:13 He takes the wise in their own craftiness; the counsel of the cunning is carried headlong. 5:14 They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope at noonday as in the night. 5:15 But he saves from the sword of their mouth, even the needy from the hand of the mighty. 5:16 So the poor has hope, and injustice shuts her mouth. 5:17 "Behold, happy is the man whom God corrects. Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty. 5:18 For he wounds, and binds up. He injures, and his hands make whole. 5:19 He will deliver you in six troubles; yes, in seven there shall no evil touch you. 5:20 In famine he will redeem you from death; in war, from the power of the sword. 5:21 You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, neither shall you be afraid of destruction when it comes. 5:22 At destruction and famine you shall laugh, neither shall you be afraid of the animals of the earth. 5:23 For you shall be in league with the stones of the field. The animals of the field shall be at peace with you. 5:24 You shall know that your tent is in peace. You shall visit your fold, and shall miss nothing. 5:25 You shall know also that your seed shall be great, Your offspring as the grass of the earth. 5:26 You shall come to your grave in a full age, like a shock of grain comes in its season. 5:27 Look this, we have searched it, so it is. Hear it, and know it for your good."