Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus; 3:2 who was faithful to him who appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house. 3:3 For he has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who built the house has more honor than the house. 3:4 For every house is built by someone; but he who built all things is God. 3:5 Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were afterward to be spoken, 3:6 but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house; whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glorying of our hope firm to the end. 3:7 Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says, "Today if you will hear his voice, 3:8 don't harden your hearts, as in the provocation, like as in the day of the trial in the wilderness, 3:9 where your fathers tested me by proving me, and saw my works for forty years. 3:10 Therefore I was displeased with that generation, and said, 'They always err in their heart, but they didn't know my ways;' 3:11 as I swore in my wrath, 'They will not enter into my rest.'" 3:12 Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in falling away from the living God; 3:13 but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called "today;" lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. 3:14 For we have become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm to the end: 3:15 while it is said, "Today if you will hear his voice, don't harden your hearts, as in the rebellion." 3:16 For who, when they heard, rebelled? No, didn't all those who came out of Egypt by Moses? 3:17 With whom was he displeased forty years? Wasn't it with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness? 3:18 To whom did he swear that they wouldn't enter into his rest, but to those who were disobedient? 3:19 We see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.