1:1 The beginning of the Good News of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. 1:2 As it is written in the prophets, "Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. 1:3 The voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Make ready the way of the Lord! Make his paths straight!'" 1:4 John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching the baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins. 1:5 All the country of Judea and all those of Jerusalem went out to him. They were baptized by him in the Jordan river, confessing their sins. 1:6 John was clothed with camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist. He ate locusts and wild honey. 1:7 He preached, saying, "After me comes he who is mightier than I, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and loosen. 1:8 I baptized you in water, but he will baptize you in the Holy Spirit." 1:9 It happened in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 1:10 Immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. 1:11 A voice came out of the sky, "You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." 1:12 Immediately the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness. 1:13 He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan. He was with the wild animals; and the angels were serving him. 1:14 Now after John was taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the Good News of the Kingdom of God, 1:15 and saying, "The time is fulfilled, and the Kingdom of God is at hand! Repent, and believe in the Good News." 1:16 Passing along by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. 1:17 Jesus said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you into fishers for men." 1:18 Immediately they left their nets, and followed him. 1:19 Going on a little further from there, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets. 1:20 Immediately he called them, and they left their father, Zebedee, in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. 1:21 They went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. 1:22 They were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes. 1:23 Immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, 1:24 saying, "Ha! What do we have to do with you, Jesus, you Nazarene? Have you come to destroy us? I know you who you are: the Holy One of God!" 1:25 Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be quiet, and come out of him!" 1:26 The unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him. 1:27 They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, "What is this? A new teaching? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him!" 1:28 The report of him went out immediately everywhere into all the region of Galilee and its surrounding area. 1:29 Immediately, when they had come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. 1:30 Now Simon's wife's mother lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told him about her. 1:31 He came and took her by the hand, and raised her up. The fever left her, and she served them. 1:32 At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all who were sick, and those who were possessed by demons. 1:33 All the city was gathered together at the door. 1:34 He healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. He didn't allow the demons to speak, because they knew him. 1:35 Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he rose up and went out, and departed into a deserted place, and prayed there. 1:36 Simon and those who were with him followed after him; 1:37 and they found him, and told him, "Everyone is looking for you." 1:38 He said to them, "Let's go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because I came out for this reason." 1:39 He went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons. 1:40 A leper came to him, begging him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, "If you want to, you can make me clean." 1:41 Being moved with compassion, he stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, "I want to. Be made clean." 1:42 When he had said this, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean. 1:43 He strictly warned him, and immediately sent him out, 1:44 and said to him, "See you say nothing to anybody, but go show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them." 1:45 But he went out, and began to proclaim it much, and to spread about the matter, so that Jesus could no more openly enter into a city, but was outside in desert places: and they came to him from everywhere.