1:1 It happened after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag; 1:2 it happened on the third day, that behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes torn, and earth on his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and did obeisance. 1:3 David said to him, From whence come you? He said to him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. 1:4 David said to him, How went the matter? Please tell me. He answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also. 1:5 David said to the young man who told him, How know you that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead? 1:6 The young man who told him said, As I happened by chance on Mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning on his spear; and behold, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him. 1:7 When he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. I answered, Here am I. 1:8 He said to me, Who are you? I answered him, I am an Amalekite. 1:9 He said to me, Stand, I pray you, beside me, and kill me; for anguish has taken hold of me, because my life is yet whole in me. 1:10 So I stood beside him, and killed him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he was fallen: and I took the crown that was on his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them here to my lord. 1:11 Then David took hold on his clothes, and tore them; and likewise all the men who were with him: 1:12 and they mourned, and wept, and fasted until even, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Yahweh, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword. 1:13 David said to the young man who told him, Whence are you? He answered, I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite. 1:14 David said to him, How were you not afraid to put forth your hand to destroy Yahweh's anointed? 1:15 David called one of the young men, and said, Go near, and fall on him. He struck him, so that he died. 1:16 David said to him, Your blood be on your head; for your mouth has testified against you, saying, I have slain Yahweh's anointed. 1:17 David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son 1:18 (and he bade them teach the children of Judah [the song of] the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jashar): 1:19 Your glory, Israel, is slain on your high places! How the mighty have fallen! 1:20 Don't tell it in Gath. Don't publish it in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. 1:21 You mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain on you, neither fields of offerings; For there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, The shield of Saul was not anointed with oil. 1:22 From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, Jonathan's bow didn't turn back. Saul's sword didn't return empty. 1:23 Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives. In their death, they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles. They were stronger than lions. 1:24 You daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet delicately, who put ornaments of gold on your clothing. 1:25 How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain on your high places. 1:26 I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan. You have been very pleasant to me. Your love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women. 1:27 How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!