It happened after this, that Absalom the son of David had a beautiful sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of David loved her. 13:2 Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick because of his sister Tamar; for she was a virgin; and it seemed hard to Amnon to do anything to her. 13:3 But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother; and Jonadab was a very subtle man. 13:4 He said to him, Why, son of the king, are you thus lean from day to day? Won't you tell me? Amnon said to him, I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister. 13:5 Jonadab said to him, Lay you down on your bed, and feign yourself sick: and when your father comes to see you, tell him, Please let my sister Tamar come and give me bread to eat, and dress the food in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it from her hand. 13:6 So Amnon lay down, and feigned himself sick: and when the king was come to see him, Amnon said to the king, Please let her sister Tamar come, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand. 13:7 Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to your brother Amnon's house, and dress him food. 13:8 So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house; and he was laid down. She took dough, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and did bake the cakes. 13:9 She took the pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat. Amnon said, Have out all men from me. They went out every man from him. 13:10 Amnon said to Tamar, Bring the food into the chamber, that I may eat from your hand. Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother. 13:11 When she had brought them near to him to eat, he took hold of her, and said to her, Come, lie with me, my sister. 13:12 She answered him, No, my brother, do not force me; for no such thing ought to be done in Israel. Don't you do this folly. 13:13 I, where shall I carry my shame? and as for you, you will be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, please speak to the king; for he will not withhold me from you. 13:14 However he would not listen to her voice; but being stronger than she, he forced her, and lay with her. 13:15 Then Amnon hated her with exceeding great hatred; for the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her. Amnon said to her, Arise, be gone. 13:16 She said to him, Not so, because this great wrong in putting me forth is [worse] than the other that you did to me. But he would not listen to her. 13:17 Then he called his servant who ministered to him, and said, Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after her. 13:18 She had a garment of various colors on her; for with such robes were the king's daughters who were virgins dressed. Then his servant brought her out, and bolted the door after her. 13:19 Tamar put ashes on her head, and tore her garment of various colors that was on her; and she laid her hand on her head, and went her way, crying aloud as she went. 13:20 Absalom her brother said to her, Has Amnon your brother been with you? but now hold your peace, my sister: he is your brother; don't take this thing to heart. So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house. 13:21 But when king David heard of all these things, he was very angry. 13:22 Absalom spoke to Amnon neither good nor bad; for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar. 13:23 It happened after two full years, that Absalom had sheepshearers in Baal Hazor, which is beside Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king's sons. 13:24 Absalom came to the king, and said, See now, your servant has sheepshearers; let the king, I pray you, and his servants go with your servant. 13:25 The king said to Absalom, No, my son, let us not all go, lest we be burdensome to you. He pressed him: however he would not go, but blessed him. 13:26 Then said Absalom, If not, please let my brother Amnon go with us. The king said to him, Why should he go with you? 13:27 But Absalom pressed him, and he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him. 13:28 Absalom commanded his servants, saying, Mark you now, when Amnon's heart is merry with wine; and when I tell you, Smite Amnon, then kill him; don't be afraid; haven't I commanded you? be courageous, and be valiant. 13:29 The servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose, and every man got him up on his mule, and fled. 13:30 It happened, while they were in the way, that the news came to David, saying, Absalom has slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left. 13:31 Then the king arose, and tore his garments, and lay on the earth; and all his servants stood by with their clothes torn. 13:32 Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother, answered, Don't let my lord suppose that they have killed all the young men the king's sons; for Amnon only is dead; for by the appointment of Absalom this has been determined from the day that he forced his sister Tamar. 13:33 Now therefore don't let my lord the king take the thing to his heart, to think that all the king's sons are dead; for Amnon only is dead. 13:34 But Absalom fled. The young man who kept the watch lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold, many people were coming by way of the hillside behind him. 13:35 Jonadab said to the king, Behold, the king's sons are come: as your servant said, so it is. 13:36 It happened, as soon as he had made an end of speaking, that behold, the king's sons came, and lifted up their voice, and wept: and the king also and all his servants wept very sore. 13:37 But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, king of Geshur. [David] mourned for his son every day. 13:38 So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three years. 13:39 [the soul of] king David longed to go forth to Absalom: for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.