Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place, and strengthened himself against Israel. 17:2 He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken. 17:3 Yahweh was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and didn't seek the Baals, 17:4 but sought to the God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel. 17:5 Therefore Yahweh established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah brought to Jehoshaphat tribute; and he had riches and honor in abundance. 17:6 His heart was lifted up in the ways of Yahweh: and furthermore he took away the high places and the Asherim out of Judah. 17:7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes, even Ben Hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah; 17:8 and with them the Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests. 17:9 They taught in Judah, having the book of the law of Yahweh with them; and they went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and taught among the people. 17:10 The fear of Yahweh fell on all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat. 17:11 Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and silver for tribute; the Arabians also brought him flocks, seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred male goats. 17:12 Jehoshaphat grew great exceedingly; and he built in Judah castles and cities of store. 17:13 He had many works in the cities of Judah; and men of war, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem. 17:14 This was the numbering of them according to their fathers' houses: Of Judah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and with him mighty men of valor three hundred thousand; 17:15 and next to him Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred eighty thousand; 17:16 and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to Yahweh; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor. 17:17 Of Benjamin: Eliada a mighty man of valor, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield; 17:18 and next to him Jehozabad and with him one hundred eighty thousand ready prepared for war. 17:19 These were those who waited on the king, besides those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.