Now these were the sons of David, which were born unto him in Hebron; the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second Daniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess: 3:2 The third, Absalom the son of Maachah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur: the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith: 3:3 The fifth, Shephatiah of Abital: the sixth, Ithream by Eglah his wife. 3:4 These six were born unto him in Hebron; and there he reigned seven years and six months: and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years. 3:5 And these were born unto him in Jerusalem; Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel: 3:6 Ibhar also, and Elishama, and Eliphelet, 3:7 And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 3:8 And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine. 3:9 These were all the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines, and Tamar their sister. 3:10 And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Abia his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son, 3:11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son, 3:12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, 3:13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, 3:14 Amon his son, Josiah his son. 3:15 And the sons of Josiah were, the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum. 3:16 And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son. 3:17 And the sons of Jeconiah; Assir, Salathiel his son, 3:18 Malchiram also, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 3:19 And the sons of Pedaiah were, Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and the sons of Zerubbabel; Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister: 3:20 And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushabhesed, five. 3:21 And the sons of Hananiah; Pelatiah, and Jesaiah: the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shechaniah. 3:22 And the sons of Shechaniah; Shemaiah: and the sons of Shemaiah; Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six. 3:23 And the sons of Neariah; Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three. 3:24 And the sons of Elioenai were, Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani, seven.