As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. 9:2 His disciples asked him, "Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?" 9:3 Jesus answered, "Neither did this man sin, nor his parents; but, that the works of God might be revealed in him. 9:4 I must work the works of him who sent me, while it is day. The night is coming, when no one can work. 9:5 While I am in the world, I am the light of the world." 9:6 When he had said this, he spat on the ground, made mud with the saliva, anointed the blind man's eyes with the mud, 9:7 and said to him, "Go, wash in the pool of Siloam" (which means "Sent"). So he went away, washed, and came back seeing. 9:8 The neighbors therefore, and those who saw that he was blind before, said, "Isn't this he who sat and begged?" 9:9 Others were saying, "It is he." Still others were saying, "He looks like him." He said, "I am he." 9:10 They therefore were asking him, "How were your eyes opened?" 9:11 He answered, "A man called Jesus made mud, anointed my eyes, and said to me, 'Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash.' So I went away and washed, and I received sight." 9:12 Then they asked him, "Where is he?" He said, "I don't know." 9:13 They brought him who had been blind to the Pharisees. 9:14 It was a Sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. 9:15 Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. He said to them, "He put mud on my eyes, I washed, and I see." 9:16 Some therefore of the Pharisees said, "This man is not from God, because he doesn't keep the Sabbath." Others said, "How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?" There was division among them. 9:17 Therefore they asked the blind man again, "What do you say about him, because he opened your eyes?" He said, "He is a prophet." 9:18 The Jews therefore did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight, 9:19 and asked them, "Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?" 9:20 His parents answered them, "We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind; 9:21 but how he now sees, we don't know; or who opened his eyes, we don't know. He is of age. Ask him. He will speak for himself." 9:22 His parents said these things because they feared the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if any man would confess him as Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue. 9:23 Therefore his parents said, "He is of age. Ask him." 9:24 So they called the man who was blind a second time, and said to him, "Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner." 9:25 He therefore answered, "I don't know if he is a sinner. One thing I do know: that though I was blind, now I see." 9:26 They said to him again, "What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?" 9:27 He answered them, "I told you already, and you didn't listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You don't also want to become his disciples, do you?" 9:28 They insulted him and said, "You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. 9:29 We know that God has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we don't know where he comes from." 9:30 The man answered them, "How amazing! You don't know where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes. 9:31 We know that God doesn't listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshipper of God, and does his will, he listens to him. 9:32 Since the world began it has never been heard of that anyone opened the eyes of someone born blind. 9:33 If this man were not from God, he could do nothing." 9:34 They answered him, "You were altogether born in sins, and do you teach us?" They threw him out. 9:35 Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and finding him, he said, "Do you believe in the Son of God?" 9:36 He answered, "Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?" 9:37 Jesus said to him, "You have both seen him, and it is he who speaks with you." 9:38 He said, "Lord, I believe!" and he worshiped him. 9:39 Jesus said, "I came into this world for judgment, that those who don't see may see; and that those who see may become blind." 9:40 Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said to him, "Are we also blind?" 9:41 Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now you say, 'We see.' Therefore your sin remains.