"Don't let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. 14:2 In my Father's house are many homes. If it weren't so, I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you. 14:3 If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will receive you to myself; that where I am, you may be there also. 14:4 Where I go, you know, and you know the way." 14:5 Thomas said to him, "Lord, we don't know where you are going. How can we know the way?" 14:6 Jesus said to him, "I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father, except through me. 14:7 If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you know him, and have seen him." 14:8 Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us." 14:9 Jesus said to him, "Have I been with you such a long time, and do you not know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How do you say, 'Show us the Father?' 14:10 Don't you believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I tell you, I speak not from myself; but the Father who lives in me does his works. 14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the very works' sake. 14:12 Most certainly I tell you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also; and he will do greater works than these, because I am going to my Father. 14:13 Whatever you will ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 14:14 If you will ask anything in my name, I will do it. 14:15 If you love me, keep my commandments. 14:16 I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Counselor, that he may be with you forever,-- 14:17 the Spirit of truth, whom the world can't receive; for it doesn't see him, neither knows him. You know him, for he lives with you, and will be in you. 14:18 I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you. 14:19 Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more; but you will see me. Because I live, you will live also. 14:20 In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. 14:21 One who has my commandments, and keeps them, that person is one who loves me. One who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will reveal myself to him." 14:22 Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, "Lord, what has happened that you are about to reveal yourself to us, and not to the world?" 14:23 Jesus answered him, "If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our home with him. 14:24 He who doesn't love me doesn't keep my words. The word which you hear isn't mine, but the Father's who sent me. 14:25 I have said these things to you, while still living with you. 14:26 But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and will remind you of all that I said to you. 14:27 Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you; not as the world gives, give I to you. Don't let your heart be troubled, neither let it be fearful. 14:28 You heard how I told you, 'I go away, and I come to you.' If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I said 'I am going to my Father;' for the Father is greater than I. 14:29 Now I have told you before it happens so that, when it happens, you may believe. 14:30 I will no more speak much with you, for the prince of the world comes, and he has nothing in me. 14:31 But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded me, even so I do. Arise, let us go from here.