"These things have I spoken to you, so that you wouldn't be caused to stumble. 16:2 They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills you will think that he offers service to God. 16:3 They will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me. 16:4 But I have told you these things, so that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you about them. I didn't tell you these things from the beginning, because I was with you. 16:5 But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?' 16:6 But because I have told you these things, sorrow has filled your heart. 16:7 Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is to your advantage that I go away, for if I don't go away, the Counselor won't come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. 16:8 When he has come, he will convict the world about sin, about righteousness, and about judgment; 16:9 about sin, because they don't believe in me; 16:10 about righteousness, because I am going to my Father, and you won't see me any more; 16:11 about judgment, because the prince of this world has been judged. 16:12 "I have yet many things to tell you, but you can't bear them now. 16:13 However when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever he hears, he will speak. He will declare to you things that are coming. 16:14 He will glorify me, for he will take from what is mine, and will declare it to you. 16:15 All things whatever the Father has are mine; therefore I said that he takes of mine, and will declare it to you. 16:16 A little while, and you will not see me. Again a little while, and you will see me." 16:17 Some of his disciples therefore said to one another, "What is this that he says to us, 'A little while, and you won't see me, and again a little while, and you will see me;' and, 'Because I go to the Father?'" 16:18 They said therefore, "What is this that he says, 'A little while?' We don't know what he is saying." 16:19 Therefore Jesus perceived that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, "Do you inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I said, 'A little while, and you won't see me, and again a little while, and you will see me?' 16:20 Most certainly I tell you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy. 16:21 A woman, when she gives birth, has sorrow, because her time has come. But when she has delivered the child, she doesn't remember the anguish any more, for the joy that a human being is born into the world. 16:22 Therefore you now have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you. 16:23 "In that day you will ask me no questions. Most certainly I tell you, whatever you may ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. 16:24 Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be made full. 16:25 I have spoken these things to you in figures of speech. But the time is coming when I will no more speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. 16:26 In that day you will ask in my name; and I don't say to you, that I will pray to the Father for you, 16:27 for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God. 16:28 I came out from the Father, and have come into the world. Again, I leave the world, and go to the Father." 16:29 His disciples said to him, "Behold, now you speak plainly, and speak no figures of speech. 16:30 Now we know that you know all things, and don't need for anyone to question you. By this we believe that you came forth from God." 16:31 Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe? 16:32 Behold, the time is coming, yes, and has now come, that you will be scattered, everyone to his own place, and you will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 16:33 I have told you these things, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have oppression; but cheer up! I have overcome the world."