After this it happened, that David struck the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines. 18:2 He struck Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute. 18:3 David struck Hadarezer king of Zobah to Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates. 18:4 David took from him one thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for one hundred chariots. 18:5 When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, David struck of the Syrians twenty-two thousand men. 18:6 Then David put [garrisons] in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. 18:7 David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 18:8 From Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadarezer, David took very much brass, with which Solomon made the bronze sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass. 18:9 When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadarezer king of Zobah, 18:10 he sent Hadoram his son to king David, to Greet him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and struck him; (for Hadarezer had wars with Tou;) and [he had with him] all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass. 18:11 These also did king David dedicate to Yahweh, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 18:12 Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah struck of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt eighteen thousand. 18:13 He put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. 18:14 David reigned over all Israel; and he executed justice and righteousness to all his people. 18:15 Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 18:16 and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe; 18:17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief about the king.