It happened, when David lived in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Yahweh [dwells] under curtains. 17:2 Nathan said to David, Do all that is in your heart; for God is with you. 17:3 It happened the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 17:4 Go and tell David my servant, Thus says Yahweh, You shall not build me a house to dwell in: 17:5 for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up Israel, to this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from [one] tent [to another]. 17:6 In all places in which I have walked with all Israel, spoke I a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar? 17:7 Now therefore thus shall you tell my servant David, Thus says Yahweh of Armies, I took you from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel: 17:8 and I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a name, like the name of the great ones who are in the earth. 17:9 I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first, 17:10 and [as] from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover I tell you that Yahweh will build you a house. 17:11 It shall happen, when your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, that I will set up your seed after you, who shall be of your sons; and I will establish his kingdom. 17:12 He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. 17:13 I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my loving kindness away from him, as I took it from him that was before you; 17:14 but I will settle him in my house and in my kingdom forever; and his throne shall be established forever. 17:15 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak to David. 17:16 Then David the king went in, and sat before Yahweh; and he said, Who am I, Yahweh God, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far? 17:17 This was a small thing in your eyes, God; but you have spoken of your servant's house for a great while to come, and have regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, Yahweh God. 17:18 What can David [say] yet more to you concerning the honor which is done to your servant? for you know your servant. 17:19 Yahweh, for your servant's sake, and according to your own heart, have you worked all this greatness, to make known all [these] great things. 17:20 Yahweh, there is none like you, neither is there any God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 17:21 What one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, to make you a name by great and awesome things, in driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeem out of Egypt? 17:22 For your people Israel did you make your own people forever; and you, Yahweh, became their God. 17:23 Now, Yahweh, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, be established forever, and do as you have spoken. 17:24 Let your name be established and magnified forever, saying, Yahweh of Armies is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel: and the house of David your servant is established before you. 17:25 For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build him a house: therefore has your servant found [in his heart] to pray before you. 17:26 Now, Yahweh, you are God, and have promised this good thing to your servant: 17:27 and now it has pleased you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you: for you, Yahweh, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.